Hey!
Sensei! Nagakura-sensei!
Old Man Shinpachi, tell us
more of that story already!
Yeah, yeah. Hold your horses.
You're on odd bunch, wanting
to hear about the Shinsengumi.
Please! Tell us about Commander
Kondo Isami, the master swordsman!
Hijikata Toshizo's better!
No, Okita Soji! Okita the Prodigy!
You want to hear me reminisce?
In that case, have I got a story for you.
One I've never told before.
Whoa!
I can't wait!
Yeah! All right!
Oh, don't get me wrong.
These lads won't go down in history.
But I remember them all the better for it.
Sincerity
Those three wolves.
The white-haired one most of all.
Blue Miburo
March
Bunkyu 3 (1863)
Kyoto
Chirinuya
Hey, this place is bustling.
Excuse us.
Wow.
What a handsome pair.
And so manly.
I like the look of this place, Soji.
What did I tell you, Hijikata-san?
You can trust my instincts.
Inside's already full up!
Wait out front!
Welcome.
Careful. It's hot.
My, what a charming young lady.
Why, thank you.
Hijikata-san. You're making that face again.
Oh. Kids and me—
Don't get along.
I know you can't stand them.
No, they can't stand me.
Kids can tell when someone's no good.
Iroha!
C-Coming!
Still, did you notice?
Another old lady works at this place.
That's a kid.
What?
Thank you for waiting.
Your dango, sirs.
Wow, you're right.
And look at that fierce face.
Are you a boy?
Oh, um, yes. You see—
You look great.
I love it. It's as white as new-fallen snow.
Thank you for saying so.
Maybe I should do my hair like that?
Forget it.
Kidnappers?
Yes, kidnappers.
They're everywhere these days.
I hear they only go after real young kids.
My, how dreadful.
What's the world coming to?
Seats have opened up! Come on in!
Really...
Kyoto folks just don't like me.
I can't imagine why.
My big sister told me to
write her once I got here,
but I just can't seem to find the time.
How were your dango?
Oh, they were great.
Glad to hear it.
What's your name, boy?
Nio. I'm called Nio.
"Nio"? Now there's a funny name.
I'm Iroha!
Iroha! What a lovely name.
It's nice to see siblings
getting along so well.
So that's it.
Check please, ma'am.
Hmph. Kept it to five
dango skewers, did you?
Sorry. They were delicious.
Hm?
That's a stylish kimono.
Did you make it yourself?
Oh, my! I'm impressed you can tell.
If you don't like sweet things,
we do boiled tofu, too.
Chirinuya
You have a good eye.
I think I'll try the
red-bean soup next time.
Chirinuya
Thank you! Come again!
Better think twice about that.
Huh?
Their eastern accents gave them away.
They're the guys everyone's talking about.
The Miburo.
A-Are you sure?
Yeah, that was them all right.
What's are Miburo?
\h\hWolves
of Mibu
You write it "wolves of Mibu"
'cause a pack of 'em settled in Mibu Village.
\h\hWolves
of Mibu
You know the Roshigumi?
All those ronin from Edo?
Yes, I've heard them.
They came to guard the Shogun
when he visited the city.
But I thought they'd left right away.
Most did. But a handful stuck around.
Those are the Miburo.
And word is they act
like they own the place,
cutting folks down for no reason and
breaking into shops to rob them.
Th-That does sound like trouble.
It wouldn't happen
if the Shogunate had a spine.
Prices have gone up
since the Black Ships came.
So guys swing swords around
to "expel the barbarians."
Then, ruffians from out east join in,
and suddenly, no one's safe.
Anyway, better to give 'em a wide berth.
Who cares?! They're damn good looking!
Huh?!
Okay, closing time! Get going!
Honestly. Who asked them?
Are they dangerous? They didn't look it.
Onii, do you think the Miburo
are really that scary?
I wonder. What did you think of them, Iroha?
Hm...
They seemed like funny guys to me.
Iroha.
I think you should trust your
own eyes and ears over rumors.
That's my big brother!
Don't mention it.
Ow!
Chirinuya
Hello there.
We're back.
Come in.
Oh? The place is empty today.
Chirinu
We're in a slump!
Wow, look at you go.
Our own red-bean soup and boiled tofu.
Hooray!
Ma'am, those two aren't
brother and sister, are they?
Huh? What makes you say that?
Maru, Take, Ebisu, Ni, Oshi, Oike!
They're called "Iroha" and "Nio."
The order makes no sense.
"Nio" should come second.
Ane, San, Rokkaku, Tako, Nishiki!
The order?
Oh, like the poem. "Iroha nihoheto."
"Iroha" comes before "Nio."
Shi, Aya, Buttake, Matsu, Man, Gojo!
No, they're siblings.
Sekida, jingle-jangle, Uo-no-tana!
Iroha's folks passed away
right after she was born.
Rokujo, Santetsu, cross over every street!
Nio got left at a temple.
Once you pass Hiccho, next come Hakkujo!
I took them both in.
At Toji on Jujo, there you stop!
They're both orphans with
no blood relatives to speak of.
But we've gotten by together
for ten years now.
They may not share
the same blood in their veins,
Maru, Take, Ebisu, Ni, Oshi, Oike!
but they're still brother and sister.
I'm sure they are.
Ane, San, Rokkaku, Tako, Nishiki!
They must be a big help around the shop.
Shi, Aya, Buttake, Matsu, Man, Gojo!
Especially Nio. That boy's sharp.
Sekida, jingle-jangle, Uo-no-tana!
He's a handy boy, and clever, too.
Rokujo, Santetsu, cross over every street!
He hardly seems like a child sometimes.
Once you pass Hiccho, next come Hakkujo!
Give him three more years,
and he'll be able to get by without me.
At Toji on Jujo, there you stop!
And as you can see,
Iroha's as pretty as she is cheerful.
A noble family's agreed to take her in.
I couldn't be more pleased.
You sound like their real grandmother.
D-Don't talk nonsense!
Honestly!
Why couldn't you have just said "mother"?!
Iroha! Nio! Be home
before it gets fully dark.
We will!
Sorry.
Oh, it's no big deal.
Go change inside, then let's go home.
Okay!
It's pitch black out.
I'm not worried. I've got you.
Yeah.
You know, Onii, Granny says a
great noble family's going to adopt me.
That one we deliver dango
to sometimes, you know?
Yeah, I heard.
I'd really rather stay with
you and Granny, though.
I'm glad.
Huh?
That family will take
good care of you, Iroha.
But I know you put up with a lot, too.
It doesn't feel fair.
Don't worry about me.
I'll make Chirinuya a huge success.
I don't really have any dreams
or ambitions, anyway.
What's life for if not enjoying yourself?
Besides, Granny would cry
if we left her all alone.
So come visit Chirinuya
every now and then, okay?
Okay.
You've got a point.
Granny would get lonely.
I wish I was good at writing.
I'd send you heaps of letters.
Maybe I ought to practice.
Iroha... This way!
Huh?!
We can't hide here. The moon's too bright.
Wh-What's going on?
Yes, kidnappers.
They're everywhere these days.
I hear they only go after real young kids.
Kidnappers?
Onii!
Iroha! Get behind me!
Iroha!
So you've finally shown yourselves.
We were getting tired of waiting.
I already hit you, if you're wondering.
Stand back.
Wh-Who are you?
Oh, haven't you heard?
Crying children cry harder...
You mean "fall silent."
...when they see the dreaded Roshigumi.
Don't let them spook you! Get 'em!
Now, who's next?
Oh, hey. It's Toshiro.
Huh?
The way you draw your sword gives you away.
We won't draw.
You'd only get our blades rusty.
Th-They're so strong.
Where are the kids you snatched?
Damn Miburo. No one likes you outsiders.
So what?
We don't do this to make friends.
Unlike Soji, I've got
one hell of a short temper.
You drew steel,
so you must be ready to die by it.
Hijikata-san, stop!
What is it?
They're threatening you
with a hostage, aren't they?
A hostage like...
a child?
My daughter.
Nio, how could you tell?
He never looked ready to kill
while holding his sword.
Huh.
Do you know where they hide out?
Next to a pawnshop on Shijo-dori.
How many of them are there?
I don't know. At least ten.
Ten? That's way too many.
All right. Let's head straight there.
P-Please wait! Shouldn't we wait
for morning and call for help?
Don't worry.
We'll take care of it before dawn.
I promise we'll save her.
Tell your daughter you're proud
of her when she gets home.
I'm sure she'll be starving.
Feed her some rice balls or something.
Nio. Iroha. Can you get home alone?
Y-Yes.
U-Um...
We'll stop by again tomorrow.
Chirinuya
I couldn't believe my ears!
To think that my Nio and Iroha
got such a dreadful fright!
They tell me you samurai saved them.
You're mighty handy with those swords.
And good looking to boot. The ideal men!
Oh, all the kids are fine,
and the kidnappers ran to the hills.
I doubt they'll be making
any more mischief.
Thank you so much, Soji!
Isn't that nice?
Your tea, sir.
Thanks.
Hot!
He seems upset for some reason.
Nio.
Would you come to Mibu
and join the Roshigumi?
You're still a child,
but you can pull your weight.
We're not asking you
to fight to the death.
Cooking, cleaning, laundry...
We have lots of jobs that need doing.
My!
Oh, dear.
I see.
Thank you. We'll be back.
May I ask you something?
What is it?
You used Iroha and me as bait, didn't you?
That's right.
We didn't know who they were,
and time was running out.
Using children as bait saved time.
But Iroha might not be able to go out
at night for a while because of it.
S-Sorry. It was my idea.
I didn't think that far ahead.
What's the problem? She can just stay in.
For now.
Oh, what he means is, basically, um...
She'll be able to go out again someday,
because we'll make the world safe for her.
We're like dogs.
People take us in because we seem useful
and kick us out "for our own good."
We might fall ill and die tomorrow!
We'll never even get to meet our parents.
People brawl in broad daylight!
People attack you on the street at night!
They take land!
They take money!
They take lives!
They fight! Rape! Kill!
We've put up with it all this time.
We grinned and bore it!
Isn't that always the way?
Everyone knows who always gets sacrificed!
Who always gets hurt!
It's always the weakest! Always the kids!
But...
More than anything,
I hate how powerless I am.
I want to get strong, too.
I want...
to change this world.
You have a deal.
Thank you for waiting.
Here. Granny told me
to at least bring a gift.
Now, let's get going.
Don't forget to bow!
And what do you say?
"Thank you, sirs! I'm your debt!"
Y-Yes.
And for the last time, Nio, I'm the
closest thing to a parent you've got.
Granny.
Thank you, sirs. I'm in your debt.
Fine.
You'll be the third wolf
to join us in Kyoto.
And that's how...
I joined the Miburo.
All the people I'd meet there...
and every single moment I'd experience...
would leave a huge mark on this world...
and on my life.
The
Wolves
of Mibu
and
a Boy
Next time
The boy became a Miburo
as the cherry trees blossomed.
He and his comrades would witness
a heartless world that reeked of blood.
Even as he felt the urge to run,
the young wolf kept searching
for his own truth, his own justice.
Next time: "A World Where It's Okay to Cry."
A World
Where
It's Okay
to Cry
It won't disappoint.